Welcome back.
In the previous video we saw that we did some big booboo.
That is we overrode name and speak and now all that hard work that we put into our class has been overridden
by this.
I mean sure if we instantiate a new object we will have our run and speak but.
Player 1 now is completely useless.
It has no name and speak but it just says boo completely useless now in Python.
There's this idea of public and private.
And this is related to our discussion of abstraction.
The idea behind abstraction is that we hide away information and only give access to things that a user
is concerned about right.
So ideally we shouldn't have access to in it.
Ideally we shouldn't be able to let's say modify run or modify name and H because when we create a player
character in our game hopefully the player can just randomly change their name or their H and sneak
into our game that perhaps is only 18 and over so can we make a private variable in our class.
Well here's the thing.
Some languages allow us to have private variables for example in a language like Java.
I can actually say that an attribute is private like this and I won't be able to access it and modify
it like I had this way.
But in Python there's no true privacy no true private variables.
So how do we get around this.
Well what we would do is do underscore name or underscore each now.
Does this give any special power.
No.
This is just a convention that is as programmers as Python programmers.
We determined that hey if we see underscore in our code that most likely means that this should be a
private variable so that when I use it and speak let's say underscore name underscore H and let's comment
this out if I click Run.
Well I have to run this because now it's a method let's click Run and I get my name is Andre and I'm
a hundred years old it all works.
But if I tried to overwrite these and click Run hope and now because it's no longer a method let's remove
speak and I click Run this still works.
And that's because like I said there's no true private variables as programmers.
We've decided that underscore means that you shouldn't touch us.
Please don't touch this.
You can still be bad and do something like this but I'm letting you know ahead of time.
If you see underscore this shouldn't be modified.
This should be private and that's how we achieve privacy in Python.
We all kind of agreed to say hey let's keep this little thing private.
So if you ever want to keep a method or a an attribute private you just put an underscore in front of
it.
But it's no guarantee.
What about this double underscore in it.
Again this is something we're going to be speaking about very shortly but it's called a Dunder method
that is it's built into python and we usually never write our own Dunder methods.
We would never write double underscore.
Right.
This these double underscores and there's lots of them have special meaning in Python.
And the reason that they're named like this is because they're saying hey if you're writing double underscore
for your variable you're doing something very wrong.
You're about to overwrite something.
So once again this double underscore is also a convention to let people know you shouldn't really touch
this or modify this with each data type.
Let's say a list if I do dot you'll see that as you scroll down you have a lot of these Dunder methods.
Again something that we're going to talk about but these are here to let you know don't overwrite these
if you're doing something like underscore underscore I don't know doc like this.
That's bad.
Don't don't try and modify it and assign into five so this idea of a private field is important to Python.
And although we can overwrite a lot of things it's bad practice.
But let's bring it back to abstraction.
The idea is to abstract away this code and although it can be modified and overridden by using these
proper conventions like private attributes we're able to abstract things away but still make sure that
whatever the user might be using isn't going to break our code.
I'll see in the next one.
Bob.